content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = 'Welcome'
date = 2024-12-29T15:16:09+02:00
draft = false
+++

Hi, I‘m Marco. I am a founder and managing partner at [Pandata GmbH](https://pandata.de), a Berlin-based data consultancy firm specializing in data strategy, business intelligence, and artificial intelligence, with a team of 30.
I hold degrees in Computer Science (B.Sc.) and Business Administration (M.Sc.) from ESCP Europe, having studied in London, Paris, and Berlin. My professional journey includes roles such as Business Engineer at Rocket Internet during its IPO phase and experience as a web and mobile app developer at a startup in Rio de Janeiro.
With over a decade of experience in the data sector, I regularly speak about data and AI at conferences and share my experience in workshops. 
I create plotter art, generating unique algorithmic designs that bridge the gap between computation and visual aesthetics. 
I make music, playing live sets using hardware synthesizers to create immersive dub techno soundscapes.

Commit message:

Created new section speaker with talks

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = 'Welcome'
date = 2024-12-29T15:16:09+02:00
draft = false
+++

Hi, I‘m Marco. I am a founder and managing partner at [Pandata GmbH](https://pandata.de), a Berlin-based data consultancy firm specializing in data strategy, business intelligence, and artificial intelligence, with a team of 30.
I hold degrees in Computer Science (B.Sc.) and Business Administration (M.Sc.) from ESCP Europe, having studied in London, Paris, and Berlin. My professional journey includes roles such as Business Engineer at Rocket Internet during its IPO phase and experience as a web and mobile app developer at a startup in Rio de Janeiro.
With over a decade of experience in the data sector, I regularly speak about data and AI at conferences and share my experience in workshops. 
I create plotter art, generating unique algorithmic designs that bridge the gap between computation and visual aesthetics. 
I make music, playing guitar with my band Blink Twice and solo with live sets using hardware synthesizers to create immersive dub techno soundscapes.
